# SD1BTest
Richard Night, a successful businessman who, during the 1990s, was concerned by the violence and disruption of the impending Collapse, came up with the idea of a utopia safe from crime. He then founded a side company known as Night International, and began to plan an ideal new city — an environment that would be controlled and ultimately safe from the ravages currently tearing the world apart.[1] His new city was to be completely planned, self-sufficient, and capable of holding off even the most determined criminals. It would boast planned neighborhoods dedicated to preserving the feel of different types of nationalities and cultures, as well as an ultra-modern corporate center that would stand as a shining beacon of enlightened capitalism.[2] It was ambitious, far-reaching, and visionary in its approach.[9]

Night secured an unheard amount of capital needed to finance the project. With the Collapse, many corporations had been looking to establish their own urban areas - controlled zones free of crime, poverty or debt. A place where governments would be corporate-run, allowing optimum zoning and no anti-business elements to interfere with corporate growth. Night's dream city was tailor-made for their purposes and so he provided the design and construction capacities. By 1992, Arasaka, EBM and Petrochem had all signed on with the project.[1]

Richard Night sent scouting teams to the East and West Coasts of the United States, but it was a small article in the San Francisco Chronicle that caught his eye - the article described an incident of a post-holocaust horror that had taken place in a small town called Morro Bay, along the Central Californian coast. Night purchased the land where a ghost town now stood and began preparations. Aided by Petrochem, who had taken over the then-abandoned Dynergy power plant in the town and was already planning to set up an offshore port and oil terminal site.[2] A leveraged 132 million dollar purchase secured the remaining parcels.[1]

Bankrolled by Merrill, Asukaga, & Finch, Night and Petrochem hired the Arasaka Corporation to remove the boostergangs and make the area a safe zone for construction. Further funds came from external investors lured to the project by the promise of lucrative building contracts and possible sources of extralegal income. In order to erase the stigma of the Morro Bay Massacre, the partnership renamed the land Del Coronado Bay, to make way for their new project of Coronado City.[2]

By 1993, Coronado City required more terrain than what the geology of the bay had. The partnership leveled the surrounding hills and dumped them into the ocean as fill. They reshaped the bay in order that the formerly narrow sand spit to the west was widened to about 10 miles, and also re-dredged the harbor making it capable of porting the large ships needed to build the city, with the remaining dirt also ending up as fill on the western edge. There were also plans to build a station for the Planetran intercontinental maglev.[1][2]

Construction (1994 - 2005)
In May of 1994, the construction had begun. Although Petrochem and MA&F were the major bankrollers for the Coronado Partnership, they weren't construction companies, a problem that eventually led to employ the workforce of the mob. The West Coast Mobs - such as the Mafia, Yakuza, and more - had maintained a stranglehold on heavy construction.[1] They controlled the construction unions, the transport unions, and most of the governmental agencies in charge of construction licenses, environmental impacts, and other building necessities. The Mobs hoped that by investing a large amount of money in the Partnership, they would not only make a huge return on lucrative construction work, but also have the inside track on future gambling, prostitution, and drug franchises in the new city.[9] However, Night's plan required the use his own advanced building techniques and materials; which excluded a number of established unions and construction firms controlled by the Mob partners, including his old associates - now known as Halsey, Ferris, and Skiv. This displeased them, and Night's further insistence that his new city would be safe and crime free angered them even more.[2]

During the first four years of construction, there were daily threats against Night's life, and when the threats escalated to the level of sabotage and intimidation, he called in his corporate partners, who dealt with the issue swiftly and ruthlessly.[1] However, despite his influence and his allies promising to deal with it, Night's luck ran out. On September 20th, 1998, he was shot and killed in his penthouse suite at the top of the newly constructed Parkview Tower.[1] Night's killer was never apprehended, and in his memory, the newly appointed City Council officially renamed Coronado City as "Night City" in his honor.[2]

A year after her husband's death, Miriam Night restructured Richard's company and founded Night's Foundation, with the primary goal to protect and promote her husband's vision of the perfect city. This foundation eventually reorganized and became known as Night Corp.[8] During this, the mob bosses who had killed Richard began to appropriate most of the city.[2] The next seven years were chaotic as the different powers battled for control of Night City.[1]

Mob Rule (2005 - 2009)
By 2005, the mob had become the dominate force in the Del Coronado Bay area. The corporations established their strongholds in the outlying "beavervilles" and the newly constructed Corporate Plaza. Originally the corps had little interest in running Night City, and the City Council were unable to lead without them.

During the next four years, much of the city's government was replaced by corrupt mob-selected puppets. By selling contracts to their colleagues, setting up drug and extortion deals, and inviting the worst of the Collapse into the city, the mobs managed to turn a relatively clean, modern metropolis into an embattled war zone. Crime, drugs, prostitution, random violence, and cybernetic terrorism soon became the rule of law. By 2009, the name Night City had taken on a grim and deadly new meaning.

These were among the worst years for Night City, with more murders in that four-year span than there were for most cities in ten. The mob ruled the city with an iron fist, destroying anything in its way. Gang activity was at an all-time high during this period, with notorious gangs such as the Blood Razors or the Slaughterhouse making their debut. The number of unsolved murders documented by the Night City Police Department had risen into the thousands.[2]

Mob War (2009 - 2011)
After four years of street warfare, in 2009 the Megacorporations around the city finally began to take matters into their own hands. From 2009 to 2011, during the period of conflict known as the Mob War, the corporations battled the underworld for control of Night City.[1] Led by Arasaka-trained paramilitary troops in assault vehicles, fan tanks, and combat aerodynes - a wave of bombings, assassinations, and outright street battles descended upon the mob's ill-prepared cadres. When the smoke cleared, the corporations had utterly destroyed the mob's power base in Night City.[2]

At the end of the Mob War, the corporations placed a puppet mayor in power and started cleaning up the rest of Night City. The newly elected City Council - faced with the return of chaos in the city - deputized corporate security forces and allowed them full authority within city limits. The corporate and city centers were cleaned out and restored to their pristine states. The other neighborhoods were also cleaned out and made livable again. The corporate draconian policies contributed to the city's chronic homeless problem. This ultimately put hundreds on the street as affordable housing was upgraded and used to house the troops the corporations needed to maintain order. In the following years, this situation eased as fewer enforcers and security teams were needed to keep the streets safe.[1][2]

2013
By 2013, much of the worst excesses of Night City had been crushed under the ruthless heel of the megacorps. The basic services such as police, firefighters, and support services had been reestablished.[2] In April the 13th of that same year, famous rockerboy legend Johnny Silverhand held a concert outside the original Arasaka Tower and led a strike team into the tower to rescue his girlfriend Alt Cunningham. During the assault the American branch CEO, Toshiro, was murdered and the tower was damaged badly. Arasaka Tower was repaired over the coming years that followed.

2020
By 2020, Night City was a rapidly growing urban region, still rife with urban violence and street crime, but with strong economic growth in the corporate sector. It was the quintessential city of the future—gritty - dangerous, but possessing an urban slick and stylish cool that made it unique. The city had all but healed from the ravages of its bleak past. The Corporate Plaza was still pristine, and the NCPD had enough power to keep down the downtown streets fairly safe during the day. However, Night City had also devolved into an armed society. It wasn't strange to see as many guns as briefcases on the crowded city streets, and despite the new security the city remained crime ridden.[2]

Night City had evolved into a busy, successful, and dangerous urban zone. The city government kept control of the city, but when things got out of control they depended on the corporations to step in. Night City was far from Richard Night's original dream, however it worked well enough.[1]

Fourth Corporate War (2021 - 2023)
Because of its Free State status, Night City was home to units on both sides of the 4th Corporate War. As many other cities, Night City was also caught in between the power struggle of Arasaka and Militech. While some cities were evacuated due to the conflict, such as Rio de Janeiro or Busan, Night City was the only one destroyed by a mini nuke. The Arasaka Tower was 140 floors tall, making it among the tallest building that existed at the time. With the exact location of the Arasaka master database unknown, Militech decided the best course of action was to use a pocket nuke (carried by a hand–picked black ops team) to level the entire structure. The Militech team didn't consider the amount of devastation or the death toll, as they had already written the city off as a loss.

The bomb triggered in the Arasaka Tower was roughly twenty–five percent as powerful as the bomb at Hiroshima. It was designed to utterly demolish the master database and make it unusable in any way to a rival Megacorporation. The Nuke was prematurely detonated at floor 120 (1200 feet), in Kei Arasaka's office where the Soulkiller lab was located. The immediate blast killed 12,000 instantly.

The blast obliterated the tower, splitting it in half and causing as it collapsed outward. The entire center of the city became rubble in seconds. Much of Night City was built on fill, due to the original elevation only being sixteen feet above sea level. The nuke in turn caused a minor earthquake that liquefied parts of the fill and flooded the inner city.

The explosion was technically an air blast since the detonation went off at roughly 1,200 feet. While this lessened overall long–term radioactivity, most of what remained penetrated only the huge skyscraper towers surrounding the blast. The high blast area and the tons of raw concrete and steel there were instantly converted into particulate debris which rained down on the entire NorCal region and far out to sea for many months after.

The dust cloud spiraled up into the sky, turning it red for almost two years. Even several years after the blast, suspended particles would cause the skies at dawn and dusk to glow a lurid crimson. As a result many of the people who lived through this time deemed it as "The time of Red" or simply "Red."

After the Fall (2023 - 2025)
Night City was made inhabitable after the AHQ bombing. 12,000 people were killed in the initial blast, however many citizens were unaffected as most had heavy amounts of cyberware installed or had radiation filters in their bodies already. However, the Nuke and its aftermath destroyed a large part of Night City's housing, forcing people to move out to the suburbs or to areas even further out from the city' center. The liquefaction of the fill the city was originally built upon broke gas mains, water pipes, and electrical grids. Streets became twisted chunks of asphalt, strewn with wrecked ground cars, while fallen AVs laid scattered among the debris of broken skyscrapers. Despite the hardships - Night City was still not as badly affected as some other cities like Rio, Busan, or Hong Kong.

Much of the area beyond Greater Night City had been abandoned during the Collapse. People in the thousands moved north, south, and east as soon as they could. Neighborhoods found a new unity and purpose, even if it was grudgingly built on shaky foundations. The people weren't looking to rebuild, as the priority was to look for food, clean water, and shelter.[2]

The Recovery (2025 - 2035)
Elizabeth Kress, President of NUSA and ex-Militech CEO, blamed the Night City attack on the Arasaka Corporation, however she was able to determine that the actual weapon used had been supplied by a Militech strike team. The "Big Lie" was that Arasaka blew up the Corporate Center in a denial attack to stop Militech from seizing the Arasaka's Night City office.

Very few people knew anything about the Militech–backed strike team or its composition. The official story from the media was a terrorist group issued a threat stating that a bomb would be set off in the Arasaka Tower as a symbol to stop "Corporate Colonialism." Bringing the full force of her military and propaganda resources to bear, Kress painted a lurid picture of Arasaka as an evil foreign megacorporation run by a madman, who wanted only the destruction of an American city in the pursuit of personal power. Arasaka's charters to operate in the NUSA were immediately revoked, its members and board were declared terrorists, and its assets either seized or driven off-shore.

Despite all the political play, Kress showed little to no interest in helping Night City recover. Much as previous Presidents during the Collapse had done, she wrote the city off as unrecoverable and offered sanctuary in a New United States to the surviving refugees. There were two reasons for this; first, with the resources of the NUSA already stretched to the breaking point, there were too few options left for her. Second, the flinty and farsighted American President saw this as the perfect way to bring the wayward Free State of Northern California back into the government's control. Night City however, resisted the rule of the New United Sates.[2][8]

The Rebuilding (2035 - 2069)
Roughly two million people in the greater Night City area were left homeless due to the bomb, either directly or because of the flooding from the liquefaction of the city's foundations - which were built on fill and sand. Survivors fled into overcrowded tent shanty towns in the surrounding suburbs of North Oak, Westbrook, Pacifica, Heywood, and South Night City. But soon enough it was obvious that something needed to be done quickly.

The remnants of the Night City government and its citizens turned to outside resources, calling in old markers and favors from a wide variety of people - including nomad families, small corporations and edgerunners. Recovery was led by the Aldecaldos nomad clan and their allies in the StormTech Corporation. With a lot of experience in city rebuilding due to the Chicago project, StormTech and the Aldecaldos were uniquely equipped to construct extensive temporary housing from shipping containers, and afterwards formocrete modules brought in by rail and sea. Firstly though, the ground needed to be cleared to put up even these rudimentary structures.

Most of the central corporate zone had been destroyed, including the government buildings. The wreckage was far too vast to dig up and cart to distant landfills, so the survivors used bulldozers and jury–rigged main battle tanks - abandoned by both sides - to shove the debris into the bay. Night Corp offered generous rewards to anyone willing to help clean up the crater of radioactive rubble at ground zero. Both the corporation and the City Council claimed that casualties were kept to a minimum, while at the same time they didn't provide official statistics to substantiate said claim.[10] Much of Night City's inner neighborhoods had already been razed to the ground in the ceaseless battles preceding the Fall of the Towers, so the wreckage became the fill that new megabuildings and old cityscapes used to rise again, once more ready to challenge the smog-filled skies.

Many of the old districts had become a part of the new Combat Zone, and the original heart of the metropolis was still completely devastated. By 2045, Night City was still in the process of rebuilding.

This ongoing rebuilding period cemented Night City's relationship to the outer world. Abandoned by President Kress and the New United States, Night City had no intention of ever going back into their failing fold. At that time, there was a rampant speculation that the NUSA government had used Arasaka as a scapegoat for the nuclear detonation, obtaining with this the opportunity to slander the corp's reputation. It was at some point of the early 2040s when the truth was finally unveiled.

Trace Santiago, a young independent media, managed to obtain information about what truly went down in 2023, writing several exposes and books about the Fourth Corporate War. With this story published, the Big Lie - the deception created by President Kress to blame Arasaka for the AHQ Disaster - completely crumbled. This publication backfired spectacularly against Militech and the NUSA, driving Night City to realign itself with Arasaka rather than the United States. After these revelations, it was a common opinion that Night Citizens would prefer to see the return of the Asian corporation than submit to federal rule. The city was even prepared to request aid from the Arasaka if the Union ever tried to take back Night City by force.

As for the EEC and Soviet Union; Night City council considered them pleasant trading partners as long as they didn't disrupt the harmony of the city.[8][11][12]

In May 4th 2063, the Avian Extermination Act was approved by the City Council after a series of zoonotic disease outbreaks, eliminating all birds within 18 miles of the city limits. Personal pets could be kept though. Progressively, most of the animal wildlife in NC disappeared too.[13]

During the mid-2060s, the new Pacifica project was approved. With the economic recovery, investors sought an opportunity to make money on tourism. Billions of eurodollars were poured in an attempt to turn the southern suburbs of Night City into a booming tourist resort. Construction was well underway when the Unification War started. Most investors withdraw their funding, abandoning Pacifica and leaving it to the locals.[8]

2069 - 2076
At the end of 2069, the recently elected NUSA President Rosalind Myers, ex-CEO of Militech, proposed a federal rule designed to bring the Free States to heel by federalizing them under the pretense of strengthening the nation. Most of the American fully autonomous states opposed this unification, and conflict soon followed between the NUSA and a number of Free States - the Unification War.

Night City - at the time part of the Free State of Northern California - wanted to remain neutral in the conflict. NorCal had allied with the rest of Free States while SoCal had decided to back the NUSA government, thus positioning Night City in the middle of two warring states. Its citizens held their breath as they waited for federal troops to invade, though in the end they managed to barely avoid the fight. In early 2070, while a division of federal troops were advancing towards the outskirts of Night City, the then-Councilman Lucius Rhyne used his decade long list of contacts to beg the long-shunned Arasaka Corporation to protect them. A few days after the councilman's plea, an Arasaka supercarrier appeared in Del Coronado Bay and mere hours later the NUSA troops retreated.

Not long after Arasaka's open intervention, the Treaty of Unification was signed in June 2070, putting an end to the war. President Myers feared the increased presence of Arasaka could escalate the conflict, something the NUSA was not prepared for at the time. The treaty was unsatisfactory to all parties but was preferable rather than to continue the war and risking another global crisis.[8]

The treaty also rededicated Night City as an international autonomous free city, without having to answer the governance and laws of North California or the NUSA, and obtaining the title of Free City. However, this new liberty was paid costly as it allowed the megacorporations to further increase their rule over Night City, pumping money into its revitalization in order to establish a foothold on the North American West Coast. The symbolic pinnacle of this event took place that same year when the Night City government - which included the newly elected mayor Lucius Rhyne - gave Arasaka a seat in the City Council and allowed them to build their new American headquarters in the downtown area, on the site where their previous office had been destroyed in 2023. The city felt prosperity again, but it was not enjoyed by all.[14]

During this time, some investors tried to restart the Pacifica project, but they were met with resistance from the local community. The NCPD attempted to clear the area but to no avail. In fear of a bloodbath, the chief of the NCPD ordered the withdrawal and soon afterwards the City Council shut down all city services there to force the locals to leave - this attempt prove unsuccessful. Slowly, Pacifica turned into a new Combat Zone within the Night City area.

In the following years since their comeback, Arasaka extended its dominion over Night City. They were able to take out a number of corporate rivals, and build the impressive, yet ominous Arasaka Waterfront in Watson.

In 2074, Night City celebrated the eightieth anniversary since its founding.[8] That same year, a cyberpsycho attack in Kabuki caused the death of three citizens. NUSA President Rosalind Myers, after hearing of said events, offered to help protect the NC citizens with forces from Militech. These words were sharply criticized by the Night City Police Commissioner at that time.[15]

In 2076, the city's birthrate fell by 7%, becoming the third worst decline in North America.[16]

2077
By 2077, real animals in Night City are more than a rarity to behold, and while cats were said to be the last ones to disappear, it is still possible to encounter them in a precious few locations.[17] The Night City Environmental Task Force have been using stray cats to address the rat plague in Watson.[18] Where these animals can be found it is clear that they are taken care of by the city citizens, at least in terms of primary needs, although it does appear that they remain unowned due to the absurdly extortionate pet tax. Birds have also been occasionally sighted.[19]

Mayor Rhyne was due for re-election in 2077. Councilman Jefferson Peralez, a staunch adversary of corporate influence, planned to run against him.[8][20] Rhyne unexpectedly died, with the official cause of death attributed to the implants regulating his heart malfunctioning. Deputy Mayor Weldon Holt became Acting Mayor, and a new election was called in which both Holt and Peralez announced they would run, along with several other unidentified candidates. Peralez eventually prevailed over Holt and the other candidates in the election, winning either a majority or a plurality of the vote, and became the next mayor of Night City 